<!-- Powertools for AWS --> 
You can learm more about lambda power tools here:
    - https://catalog.workshops.aws/powertools-for-aws-lambda/en-US
    
    - https://docs.powertools.aws.dev/lambda/python/latest/#extra-dependencies

<!-- Powertools for AWS -->
By now, you should have recognized that the logs generated by your functions are standard text entries. These logs lack context regarding the function invocations that created them, making it challenging to query log entries using CloudWatch Insights consistently.

This is where Powertools for AWS comes into play.

Powertools for AWS is a developer toolkit designed to implement best practices for Serverless applications and increase developer velocity. In this section, you will be utilizing core utilities that encompass logging, tracing, and metrics.

1. Logging - This feature offers a custom logger class that outputs structured JSON. It allows you to input both simple strings and complex objects, handling the serialization of log output seamlessly. Common scenarios—such as logging the Lambda event payload and capturing cold start information—are managed automatically, including the ability to append custom keys to the logger at any time.

2. Metrics - This utility simplifies the collection of custom metrics from your application without requiring synchronous requests to external systems. It leverages Amazon CloudWatch Embedded Metric Format (EMF) , enabling asynchronous metric capture.

3. Tracing - This functionality provides an easy method for sending traces from functions to AWS X-Ray, enhancing visibility into function calls, interactions with other AWS services, or external HTTP requests. Annotations can be effortlessly added to traces, allowing for filtering based on key information. For instance, when utilizing the Tracer, a ColdStart annotation is automatically created, facilitating the grouping and analysis of traces associated with initialization overhead.  

<!-- Installing Powertools for my Python workshop runtime -->

Github repo: https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python 

Documentation: https://docs.powertools.aws.dev/lambda-python/latest/ 

Installation Instructions:

        poetry add aws-lambda-powertools[tracer]

I also added a Powertool layer (version 78) to the function. It is either the above or using a layer but I did both bur preferred the layer more
<!-- Instrument your code with Powertools -->
Powertools is a flexible module that can be implemented to meet your needs for the given project. Feel free to look over the documentation and work out how to import the module for your runtime and start adding following functionality:

1- Logging
2- Tracing
3- Cold start metrics

Below are some code snippets to help you get started:        